README.md, before:

# .dotfiles

dotfiles are the config files used by applications, some of them are hidden files in folders that start with a '.', thus the name. You can upload them to a repo to manage and backup them for future installs, just like I've done here.

Use `create-links.sh` to link the config files to this repo. This will ensure the files in your system are updated along with the repo and vice versa.

## Install

Info on how to install my Manjaro Linux setup is [here.](https://github.com/Vinesma/.dotfiles/tree/master/install)

## Programs:
A (probably incomplete) list of applications I use.

Applications in brackets are installed via my own scripts, so there's no need to install those if you run them.

### Window Manager & System bar

- (Qtile)
- (polybar)

### Video

- (mpv)

### Music

- (mpd)
- (mpc)
- (ncmpcpp)
- quodlibet

### Web

- (Firefox)

### Dev

- (Visual Studio Code)
- (nvim)
- (nano)

### Downloading

- (youtube-dl)

### Torrenting

- (qbittorrent)

### RSS and News

- (Newsboat)

### Gaming

- (Steam)
- mGBA

### Images/Vectors

- (GIMP)
- (Inkscape)

### Image Viewer

- (feh)

### API testing

- Postman
- curl

### Language Engine

- (Fcitx) -> (Mozc) (日本語)

### Programming

- (Node.js)
- (npm)
- git

### Terminal

- (Kitty)

### Notifications

- (Dunst)

### Launcher

- (rofi)

### Others

- (htop)
- (neofetch)
- (scrot)
- (Wine)
- (Redshift)
- VirtualBox
- (Syncthing)
- (Anki)
- Timeshift

Commit message:

Add option to link files outside of an install process in the install script

README.md, after:

# .dotfiles

dotfiles are the config files used by applications, some of them are hidden files in folders that start with a '.', thus the name. You can upload them to a repo to manage and backup them for future installs, just like I've done here.

Use the python script in `install/` and select the "link files" option to link these files to the system outside of a normal install process.

## Install

Info on how to install my Manjaro Linux setup is [here.](https://github.com/Vinesma/.dotfiles/tree/master/install)

## Programs:
A (probably incomplete) list of applications I use.

Applications in brackets are installed via my own scripts, so there's no need to install those if you run them.

### Window Manager & System bar

- (Qtile)
- (polybar)

### Video

- (mpv)

### Music

- (mpd)
- (mpc)
- (ncmpcpp)
- quodlibet

### Web

- (Firefox)

### Dev

- (Visual Studio Code)
- (nvim)
- (nano)

### Downloading

- (youtube-dl)

### Torrenting

- (qbittorrent)

### RSS and News

- (Newsboat)

### Gaming

- (Steam)
- mGBA

### Images/Vectors

- (GIMP)
- (Inkscape)

### Image Viewer

- (feh)

### API testing

- Postman
- curl

### Language Engine

- (Fcitx) -> (Mozc) (日本語)

### Programming

- (Node.js)
- (npm)
- git

### Terminal

- (Kitty)

### Notifications

- (Dunst)

### Launcher

- (rofi)

### Others

- (htop)
- (neofetch)
- (scrot)
- (Wine)
- (Redshift)
- VirtualBox
- (Syncthing)
- (Anki)
- Timeshift
