mpd_music_dir = ~/Music
mpd_crossfade_time = 5
visualizer_data_source = /tmp/mpd.fifo
visualizer_output_name = "my_fifo"
visualizer_in_stereo = yes
visualizer_type = wave_filled
visualizer_look = ●▮
visualizer_color = blue, cyan, green
seek_time = 5
volume_change_step = 10
progressbar_look = "   "
user_interface = classic
header_visibility = no
statusbar_visibility = no
allow_for_physical_item_deletion = yes
startup_screen = playlist
display_volume_level = no
playlist_display_mode = columns
browser_display_mode = columns
search_engine_display_mode = columns
playlist_editor_display_mode = columns
discard_colors_if_item_is_selected = yes
